Update Job docs to include info about enabling pod-to-pod communication within a job using pod hostnames (#37771)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/job/job-with-pod-to-pod-communication.md

Jobs in Indexed completion mode automatically set the pods' hostname to be in the format of
`${jobName}-${completionIndex}`, which can be used to deterministically determine
pod hostnames and enable pod communication *without* needing to create a client connection to
the Kubernetes control plane to obtain pod hostnames/IPs via API requests. This can be useful
for use cases where pod networking is required but we don't want to depend on a network 
connection with the Kubernetes API server.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

You should already be familiar with the basic use of [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/).

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{<note>}} If you are using MiniKube or a similar tool, you may need to take [extra steps](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/addons/ingress-dns/) to ensure you have DNS. {{</note>}}

<!-- steps -->

## Starting a Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication

To enable pod-to-pod communication using pod hostnames in a Job, you must do the following:

1. Set up a [headless service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)

> with a valid label selector for the pods created by your Job. This will trigger the 
> Kubernetes DNS server to cache the hostnames of 
> the pods running your Job (note that the service must be in the same namespace as 
> the Job, however, the DNS server does not need to be). One easy way to do this is to use the `job-name: <your-job-name>` selector, since the `job-name` label will be automatically added by Kubernetes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a valid label selector for the pods created by your Job. This will trigger
DNS to create records of the hostnames of 
the pods running your Job (note that the headless service must be in the same namespace as 
the Job). One easy way to do this is to use the `job-name: <your-job-name>` selector, since the `job-name` label will be automatically added by Kubernetes. 
```

Author: Done

2. Include the following your Job template spec: `subdomain: <headless-svc-name>`
   where `<headless-svc-name>` must match the name of your headless service
   exactly. 

Example Job which completes only after all pods successfully ping each other using hostnames:

```yaml

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: headless-svc
spec:
  clusterIP: None # clusterIP must be None to create a headless service
  selector:
    job-name: example-job # must match Job name
---
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: example-job
spec:
  completions: 3
  parallelism: 3
  completionMode: Indexed
  template:
    spec:
      subdomain: headless-svc # has to match Service name
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: example-workload
        image: bash:latest
        command:
        - bash
        - -c
        - |
          for i in 0 1 2
          do
            gotStatus="-1"
            wantStatus="0"             
            while [ $gotStatus -ne $wantStatus ]
            do                                       

>               ping -c 1 example-job-${i}.headless-svc > /dev/null 2>&1

Reviewer: can be prefixed by the namespace as well if the pod needs to be reached from outside the namespace.

              gotStatus=$?                
              if [ $gotStatus -ne $wantStatus ]; then
                echo "Failed to ping pod example-job-${i}.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second..."
                sleep 1
              fi
            done                                                         
            echo "Successfully pinged pod: example-job-${i}.headless-svc"
          done
```

After applying the example above, pods will be able to reach each other over the network
using: `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>`. You should see output similar to the following:
```
$ kubectl logs example-job-0-qws42
Failed to ping pod example-job-0.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second...
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-0.headless-svc
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-1.headless-svc
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-2.headless-svc
```

> **NOTE**: It is important note that the `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>` name format used

Reviewer 2: Use `{{ <note> }}`

Author: Done

---
title: Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.21
weight: 30
---

<!-- overview -->

> In this example, we will run a Job in [Indexed completion mode](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/19/introducing-indexed-jobs/) configured such that

Author: Changed to `you will` for consistency with the other Job tasks/examples.

> the pods created by the Job can communicate with each other using pod hostnames rather than pod IPs.

Author: Done

> Pods within a Job might need to communicate among themselves. They could query the Kubernetes API

Author: Changed to `The user workload running in each pod could query the Kubernetes API server...` since it is not the pod itself which can query the k8s api server, but rather the user's application code executing inside the pod, which they would modify to use to use a k8s client library to query the API server.

to learn the IPs of the other Pods, but it's much simpler to rely on Kubernetes' built-in DNS resolution.
Jobs in Indexed completion mode automatically set the pods' hostname to be in the format of

> `${jobName}-${completionIndex}`, which can be used to deterministically determine

Reviewer 2: This is more about the user than Kubernetes. Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
`${jobName}-${completionIndex}`. You can use this format to deterministically build
```

pod hostnames and enable pod communication *without* needing to create a client connection to

> the Kubernetes control plane to obtain pod hostnames/IPs via API requests. This can be useful

Author: Done

> for use cases where pod networking is required but we don't want to depend on a network 

Author: Done

connection with the Kubernetes API server.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

You should already be familiar with the basic use of [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/).

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{<note>}} If you are using MiniKube or a similar tool, you may need to take [extra steps](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/addons/ingress-dns/) to ensure you have DNS. {{</note>}}

<!-- steps -->

## Starting a Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication

To enable pod-to-pod communication using pod hostnames in a Job, you must do the following:

1. Set up a [headless service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)
with a valid label selector for the pods created by your Job. This will trigger
DNS to create records of the hostnames of 
the pods running your Job (note that the headless service must be in the same namespace as 

> the Job). One easy way to do this is to use the `job-name: <your-job-name>` selector, since the `job-name` label will be automatically added by Kubernetes.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I think you may have forgotten to finish it (it ends with `(note that t).`) but I wrote something similar.

2. Include the following your Job template spec: `subdomain: <headless-svc-name>`
   where `<headless-svc-name>` must match the name of your headless service

>    exactly. 

Author: I ended up removing the `where <headless-svc-name> must exact match the name of your headless service` bit, since I think it is self-evident.

### Example 
Below is a working example of a Job with pod-to-pod communication via pod hostnames enabled.

> The Job completes only after all pods successfully ping each other using hostnames.

Author: Updated to `The Job is completed only after...`

        command:
        - bash
        - -c
        - |
          for i in 0 1 2
          do
            gotStatus="-1"
            wantStatus="0"             
            while [ $gotStatus -ne $wantStatus ]
            do                                       
              ping -c 1 example-job-${i}.headless-svc > /dev/null 2>&1
              gotStatus=$?                
              if [ $gotStatus -ne $wantStatus ]; then
                echo "Failed to ping pod example-job-${i}.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second..."
                sleep 1
              fi
            done                                                         
            echo "Successfully pinged pod: example-job-${i}.headless-svc"
          done
```

After applying the example above, pods will be able to reach each other over the network
using: `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>`. You should see output similar to the following:
```
$ kubectl logs example-job-0-qws42
Failed to ping pod example-job-0.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second...
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-0.headless-svc
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-1.headless-svc
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-2.headless-svc
```

> {{<note>}} It is important note that the `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>` name format used

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{<note>}} Keep in mind that the `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>` name format used
```

Author: Done

---
title: Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.21
weight: 30
---

<!-- overview -->

> In this example, you will run a Job in [Indexed completion mode](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/19/introducing-indexed-jobs/) configured such that

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this example, you will run a Job in [Indexed completion mode](/blog/2021/04/19/introducing-indexed-jobs/) configured such that
```

the pods created by the Job can communicate with each other using pod hostnames rather than pod IP addresses.

Pods within a Job might need to communicate among themselves. The user workload running in each pod could query the Kubernetes API server
to learn the IPs of the other Pods, but it's much simpler to rely on Kubernetes' built-in DNS resolution.

Jobs in Indexed completion mode automatically set the pods' hostname to be in the format of
`${jobName}-${completionIndex}`. You can use this format to deterministically build
pod hostnames and enable pod communication *without* needing to create a client connection to
the Kubernetes control plane to obtain pod hostnames/IPs via API requests. 

This configuration is useful
for use cases where pod networking is required but you don't want to depend on a network 
connection with the Kubernetes API server.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

You should already be familiar with the basic use of [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/).

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

> {{<note>}} If you are using MiniKube or a similar tool, you may need to take [extra steps](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/addons/ingress-dns/) to ensure you have DNS. {{</note>}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{<note>}}
If you are using MiniKube or a similar tool, you may need to take
[extra steps](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/addons/ingress-dns/)
to ensure you have DNS.
{{</note>}}
```

<!-- steps -->

## Starting a Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication

To enable pod-to-pod communication using pod hostnames in a Job, you must do the following:

> 1. Set up a [headless service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Set up a [headless service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)
```

> with a valid label selector for the pods created by your Job. The headless service must be in the same namespace as 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   with a valid label selector for the pods created by your Job.
   The headless service must be in the same namespace as the Job.
```

> the Job. One easy way to do this is to use the `job-name: <your-job-name>` selector, since the `job-name` label will be automatically added by Kubernetes. This configuration will trigger the DNS system to create records of the hostnames of 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   One easy way to do this is to use the `job-name: <your-job-name>` selector, since the `job-name`
   label will be automatically added by Kubernetes. This configuration will trigger the DNS system to
   create records of the hostnames of the pods running your Job.
```

the pods running your Job. 

> 2. Include the following value in your Job template spec: 

Author: Anyone have thoughts on how to make this line more descriptive/clear?

> the pods running your Job. 
> 
> 2. Configure the headless service as subdomain service for the Job pods by including the following value in your Job template spec: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

2. Configure the headless service as subdomain service for the Job pods by including the following value
   in your Job template spec: 
```

>   ```yaml
>   subdomain: <headless-svc-name>
>   ```

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
   ```yaml
   subdomain: <headless-svc-name>
   ```
````

### Example 
Below is a working example of a Job with pod-to-pod communication via pod hostnames enabled.
The Job is completed only after all pods successfully ping each other using hostnames.

> {{<note>}} In the Bash script executed on each pod in the example below, the pod hostnames can be prefixed by the namespace as well 
> if the pod needs to be reached from outside the namespace. {{</note>}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{<note>}}
In the Bash script executed on each pod in the example below, the pod hostnames can be prefixed
by the namespace as well  if the pod needs to be reached from outside the namespace.
{{</note>}}
```

kind: Job
metadata:
  name: example-job
spec:
  completions: 3
  parallelism: 3
  completionMode: Indexed
  template:
    spec:
      subdomain: headless-svc # has to match Service name
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: example-workload
        image: bash:latest
        command:
        - bash
        - -c
        - |
          for i in 0 1 2
          do
            gotStatus="-1"
            wantStatus="0"             
            while [ $gotStatus -ne $wantStatus ]
            do                                       
              ping -c 1 example-job-${i}.headless-svc > /dev/null 2>&1
              gotStatus=$?                
              if [ $gotStatus -ne $wantStatus ]; then
                echo "Failed to ping pod example-job-${i}.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second..."
                sleep 1
              fi
            done                                                         
            echo "Successfully pinged pod: example-job-${i}.headless-svc"
          done
```

After applying the example above, reach each other over the network
using: `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>`. You should see output similar to the following:

> ```
> $ kubectl logs example-job-0-qws42
> Failed to ping pod example-job-0.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second...
> Successfully pinged pod: example-job-0.headless-svc
> Successfully pinged pod: example-job-1.headless-svc
> Successfully pinged pod: example-job-2.headless-svc
> ```

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
```shell
kubectl logs example-job-0-qws42
```

```
Failed to ping pod example-job-0.headless-svc, retrying in 1 second...
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-0.headless-svc
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-1.headless-svc
Successfully pinged pod: example-job-2.headless-svc
```
```

> {{<note>}} Keep in mind that the `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>` name format used

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{<note>}}
Keep in mind that the `<pod-hostname>.<headless-service-name>` name format used
```

> in this example would not work with DNS policy set to `None` or `Default`. You can learn more about pod
> DNS policies [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#pod-s-dns-policy). {{</note>}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in this example would not work with DNS policy set to `None` or `Default`.
You can learn more about pod DNS policies [here](/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#pod-s-dns-policy).
{{</note>}}
```
